readme.md, before:

# An AngularJS directive for forms that alerts user of unsaved changes.

_Dev Note: This module is still in development. However it's used in many of my production projects so it can be considered stable and battle tested._

This directive will alert users when they navigate away from a page where a form has unsaved changes. It will be triggered in all situations where form data would be lost:

- when user clicks a link
- when user navigates with forward / back button
- when user swipes (iOS)
- when user refreshes the page

In addition this module: 

- Works with multiple forms on the same page
- Provides a button to disregard unsaved changes
- Works with Angular Translate module
- Has configurable reload and navigate messages
- Works with uiRouter by default by listeneing for `$locationChangeStart` and `$stateChangeStart` 
- Can be configured to listen for any event

## How it Works

The directive binds to `locationChangeStart` and `window.onbeforeunload`. When these events happen all registered froms are checked if they are dirty. The module defers to the forms `$dirty` property as a single source of truth. If dirty, the user is alerted. Disregarding changes resets the form and sets pristine.  

## Basic Usage

- Install from bower using `$ bower install angular-unsavedChanges --save`.
- Include the JS, for example `<script src="bower_components/angular-unsavedChanges/dist/unsavedChanges.js"></script>`.
- Include in your app, for example: `angular.module('app', ['unsavedChanges', 'anotherDirective'])`
- Add attribute to your form, `unsaved-warning-form`
- That's it!


## API

### Directives 
The module provides three directives for use. 

#### unsaved-warning-form 
Add to forms you want to register with directive. The module will only listen when forms are registered. 

```
<form name="testForm" unsaved-warning-form>
</form>
```

#### unsaved-warning-clear 
Add to button or link that will disregard changes, preventing the messaging when user tries to navigate. Note that button type should be `reset` to work with `lazy-model` directive (outlined below).

```
<form name="testForm" unsaved-warning-form>
    <input name="test" type="text" ng-model="test"/>
    <button type="submit"></button>
    <button type="reset" unsaved-warning-clear></button>
</form>
```

#### resettable
Add to inputs that use `ng-model` to reset model values when user dismisses changes or clicks the `unsaved-warning-clear` button.

```
<input name="email" ng-model="email" resettable />
```

### Provider Configuration 
A number of options can be configured. The module uses the `Object.defineProperty` pattern. This avoids the need for custom getters and setters and allows us to treat configuration as pure JS objects. 

#### useTranslateService
Defaults to `true`. Will use translate service if available. It's safe to leave this set to `true`, even when not using the translate service, because the module still checks that the service exists. 

```
unsavedWarningsConfigProvider.useTranslateService = true;
```

#### logEnabled
Defaults to `false`. Uses the services internal logging method for debugging.  

```
unsavedWarningsConfigProvider.logEnabled = true;
```

#### routeEvent
Defaults to `['$locationChangeStart' ,'$stateChangeStart']` which supports ui router by default.

```
unsavedWarningsConfigProvider.routeEvent = '$stateChangeStart';
```

#### navigateMessage
Set custom message displayed when user navigates. If using translate this will be the key to translate. 
```
unsavedWarningsConfigProvider.navigateMessage = "Custom Navigate Message";
```

#### reloadMessage
Set custom message displayed when user refreshes the page. If using translate this will be the key to translate. 
```
unsavedWarningsConfigProvider.reloadMessage = "Custom Reload Message";
```


## Gotchas / Known Bugs

*** Known issue: sometimes the form is removed from expected scope. Ie: in your controller `$scope.formName` no longer works. You might need to access `$scope.$$childTail.formName`. This will be fixed in furture versions.


## Demo / Dev

To try the demo run `npm install` && `bower install` && `grunt connect`. The browser should open [http://127.0.0.1:9001/demo](http://127.0.0.1:9001/demo).


## Test

Note you need to manually change the paths in `index.html` and `karam-unit.conf` to point to the `dist` version for final testing. Make sure to run `$ grunt` first. 

__End 2 End Testing__
Because of the alert / event driven nature of this module it made the most sense to rely on e2e tests. (also its hard to interact with alerts via unit tests).

To run the e2e tests do the following: 

- Install Protractor as per directions here: [https://github.com/angular/protractor](https://github.com/angular/protractor)
- Start selenium server: `webdriver-manager start` (or use other selenium methods as per Protractor documentation.)
- Run `$ grunt test:e2e`


__Unit Tests__

- Run `$ grunt test:unit` OR `$ grunt test`


## Build

Run `$ grunt` to lint and minify the code. Also strips console logs.

Commit message:

Support for runtime angular-translate message fetching and use of translate filter instead of service

readme.md, after:

* Fork to support fetching angular-translate translations just before displaying the message, so that switching languages in runtime is working correctly. It also uses that 'translate' filter instead of the '$translate' service, as the latter returns a promise. *
---

# An AngularJS directive for forms that alerts user of unsaved changes.

_Dev Note: This module is still in development. However it's used in many of my production projects so it can be considered stable and battle tested._

This directive will alert users when they navigate away from a page where a form has unsaved changes. It will be triggered in all situations where form data would be lost:

- when user clicks a link
- when user navigates with forward / back button
- when user swipes (iOS)
- when user refreshes the page

In addition this module: 

- Works with multiple forms on the same page
- Provides a button to disregard unsaved changes
- Works with Angular Translate module
- Has configurable reload and navigate messages
- Works with uiRouter by default by listeneing for `$locationChangeStart` and `$stateChangeStart` 
- Can be configured to listen for any event

## How it Works

The directive binds to `locationChangeStart` and `window.onbeforeunload`. When these events happen all registered froms are checked if they are dirty. The module defers to the forms `$dirty` property as a single source of truth. If dirty, the user is alerted. Disregarding changes resets the form and sets pristine.  

## Basic Usage

- Install from bower using `$ bower install angular-unsavedChanges --save`.
- Include the JS, for example `<script src="bower_components/angular-unsavedChanges/dist/unsavedChanges.js"></script>`.
- Include in your app, for example: `angular.module('app', ['unsavedChanges', 'anotherDirective'])`
- Add attribute to your form, `unsaved-warning-form`
- That's it!


## API

### Directives 
The module provides three directives for use. 

#### unsaved-warning-form 
Add to forms you want to register with directive. The module will only listen when forms are registered. 

```
<form name="testForm" unsaved-warning-form>
</form>
```

#### unsaved-warning-clear 
Add to button or link that will disregard changes, preventing the messaging when user tries to navigate. Note that button type should be `reset` to work with `lazy-model` directive (outlined below).

```
<form name="testForm" unsaved-warning-form>
    <input name="test" type="text" ng-model="test"/>
    <button type="submit"></button>
    <button type="reset" unsaved-warning-clear></button>
</form>
```

#### resettable
Add to inputs that use `ng-model` to reset model values when user dismisses changes or clicks the `unsaved-warning-clear` button.

```
<input name="email" ng-model="email" resettable />
```

### Provider Configuration 
A number of options can be configured. The module uses the `Object.defineProperty` pattern. This avoids the need for custom getters and setters and allows us to treat configuration as pure JS objects. 

#### useTranslateService
Defaults to `true`. Will use translate service if available. It's safe to leave this set to `true`, even when not using the translate service, because the module still checks that the service exists. 

```
unsavedWarningsConfigProvider.useTranslateService = true;
```

#### logEnabled
Defaults to `false`. Uses the services internal logging method for debugging.  

```
unsavedWarningsConfigProvider.logEnabled = true;
```

#### routeEvent
Defaults to `['$locationChangeStart' ,'$stateChangeStart']` which supports ui router by default.

```
unsavedWarningsConfigProvider.routeEvent = '$stateChangeStart';
```

#### navigateMessage
Set custom message displayed when user navigates. If using translate this will be the key to translate. 
```
unsavedWarningsConfigProvider.navigateMessage = "Custom Navigate Message";
```

#### reloadMessage
Set custom message displayed when user refreshes the page. If using translate this will be the key to translate. 
```
unsavedWarningsConfigProvider.reloadMessage = "Custom Reload Message";
```


## Gotchas / Known Bugs

*** Known issue: sometimes the form is removed from expected scope. Ie: in your controller `$scope.formName` no longer works. You might need to access `$scope.$$childTail.formName`. This will be fixed in furture versions.


## Demo / Dev

To try the demo run `npm install` && `bower install` && `grunt connect`. The browser should open [http://127.0.0.1:9001/demo](http://127.0.0.1:9001/demo).


## Test

Note you need to manually change the paths in `index.html` and `karam-unit.conf` to point to the `dist` version for final testing. Make sure to run `$ grunt` first. 

__End 2 End Testing__
Because of the alert / event driven nature of this module it made the most sense to rely on e2e tests. (also its hard to interact with alerts via unit tests).

To run the e2e tests do the following: 

- Install Protractor as per directions here: [https://github.com/angular/protractor](https://github.com/angular/protractor)
- Start selenium server: `webdriver-manager start` (or use other selenium methods as per Protractor documentation.)
- Run `$ grunt test:e2e`


__Unit Tests__

- Run `$ grunt test:unit` OR `$ grunt test`


## Build

Run `$ grunt` to lint and minify the code. Also strips console logs.
